[Wrangler]: Document System Environment Variables (#5990)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/wrangler/system-environment-variables.md

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: System Environment Variables
weight: 5
---

## System Environment Variables

System Environment Variables are process environment variables that are available to Wrangler commands. These variables are used to configure Wrangler's behavior. They can be set in a variety of ways, including:

> 1. Setting an`.env` file in your project directory this is the recommended & persistent way to set these variables.

Reviewer: The "an" vs "a" depending on how `.env` is pronounced ("dot env" vs "env") is something we argue about all the time - it's up to your team!

Why is it recommended?

It's worth explaining what you mean by "persistent"

Something like:

```suggestion
1. Setting the values in a `.env` file in your project directory. This is the recommended way to set these variables, as it persists the values between Wrangler sessions.
```

Reviewer: Also you can link to the section where you show `.env` examples

> 1. Setting them `.env` file in the project directory this is the recommended & persistent way to set these variables.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Setting an`.env` file in your project directory this is the recommended & persistent way to set these variables.
```

> 2. Inlining the values in your Wrangler command for one-off use cases, for example `WRANGLER_LOG="debug" wrangler publish`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Inlining the values in your Wrangler command. For example, `WRANGLER_LOG="debug" wrangler publish` will set the value of `WRANGLER_LOG` to "debug" for this execution of the command.
```

> 3. Setting them in your shell environment persists depending on the shell settings, for example `export CF_API_TOKEN=...`.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Setting the values in your shell environment persists depending on the shell settings, for example `export CF_API_TOKEN=...`.
```

> 3. Setting the values in your shell environment persists depending on the shell settings, for example `export CF_API_TOKEN=...`.

Reviewer: The example is incomplete without explicitly saying _where_ this line goes. Something like:
```suggestion
3. Setting the values in your shell environment. For example, if you're using Z shell, adding `export CF_API_TOKEN=...` to your `~/.zshrc`  file will set this token as part of your shell configuration.
```
(This assumes that by "depending on" you mean "applied with". If you meant that there's some configuration flag that will determine when the variable is applied, we can clarify that instead)

Reviewer 2: I think this is more accurate. Thank you.

> **Currently, Wrangler supports the following System Environment Variables:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Currently, Wrangler supports the following environment variables:**
```

> - `"CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID"`: The account ID for the Workers related account, can be found in the Cloudflare dashboard, can usually be inferred by Wrangler.

Reviewer: Clarify what you mean by "usually" - when can't it be inferred / when you would you want to set it?

> - `"CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID"`: The account ID for the Workers related account, can be found in the Cloudflare dashboard, can usually be inferred by Wrangler.

Reviewer: What service is the "Workers related account"? Is that always a Cloudflare account, or could it be other kinds of services?

> - `"CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN"`: The API token for your Cloudflare account, can be used for authentication for situations like CI/CD, and other automation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `"CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN"`: The API token for your Cloudflare account. This is used for authenticating CI/CD and other automation.
```

> - `"CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY"`: The API key for your Cloudflare account, usually used for older authentication method with `CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL=`.

Reviewer: Same problem with "usually"

Since it's particularly confusing that there are two kinds of API key variables, extra care should be put into highlighting the difference and when you'd use one or the other

> - `"CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL"`: The email address associated with your Cloudflare account, usually used for older authentication method with `CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY=`.

Reviewer: Since this is the equivalent of the ID in the new system, I would put this before CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY. I would actually probably move these "old system" variables into their own section after this main list and give them their own title

> - `"WRANGLER_SEND_METRICS"`: Options for this are `true` and `false`, the default behavior is `false`.

Reviewer: Describe what happens when you set it to `true`

- `"CLOUDFLARE_API_BASE_URL"`: The default value is "https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4".

> - `"WRANGLER_LOG"`: Options for Logging levels are "none", "error", "warn", "info", "log" and "debug".

Reviewer: This might deserve its own section that you could link to, explaining what the different logging levels do

Reviewer 2: I think I am going to redo this section based on the Configuration section rewrite.  @KianNH Thanks for the inspiration.

Reviewer 2: Done.

> **examples in `.env` file:**

Reviewer: **Example `.env` file: **

Reviewer 2: Done.

```nginx
CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID=...
CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN=...

> CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL=...

Reviewer: I'd put some dummy values here rather than the `...`

Reviewer 2: Done.

WRANGLER_SEND_METRICS=true
CLOUDFLARE_API_BASE_URL=https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v3
WRANGLER_LOG=debug

> ```

Reviewer: After the example, I'd add a line that explains how this changes the Wrangler behavior

> **Deprecated global variables are:**

Reviewer: I noticed that y'all use `**` rather than `###` for subsections here, just flagging in case that wasn't intended

Reviewer 2: I will switch, I was on the fence which one to use but I know that the Headers have anchors you can reference in URLs

Reviewer 2: Done.

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: System Environment Variables
weight: 5
---

## System Environment Variables

> System Environment Variables are local environment variables that can change Wrangler's behavior. You can set them by:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
System Environment Variables are local environment variables that can change Wrangler's behavior. To set System Environment Variables:
```

> 1. Setting the values in a [`.env`](http://localhost:1313/workers/wrangler/system-environment-variables/#examples-in-env-file) file in your project directory. This is the recommended way to set these variables, as it persists the values between Wrangler sessions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Setting the values in a [`.env`](/workers/wrangler/system-environment-variables/#example-env-file) file in your project directory. This is the recommended way to set these variables, as it persists the values between Wrangler sessions.
```

> 1. Setting the values in a [`.env`](/workers/wrangler/system-environment-variables/#example-env-file) file in your project directory. This is the recommended way to set these variables, as it persists the values between Wrangler sessions.
> 2. Inlining the values in your Wrangler command. For example, `WRANGLER_LOG="debug" wrangler publish` will set the value of `WRANGLER_LOG` to "debug" for this execution of the command.
> 3. Setting the values in your shell environment. For example, if you're using Z shell, adding `export CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN=...` to your `~/.zshrc` file will set this token as part of your shell configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Create an `.env` file in your project directory. Set the values of your environment variables in your [`.env`](/workers/wrangler/system-environment-variables/#example-env-file) file. This is the recommended way to set these variables, as it persists the values between Wrangler sessions.

2. Inline the values in your Wrangler command. For example, `WRANGLER_LOG="debug" wrangler publish` will set the value of `WRANGLER_LOG` to `"debug"` for this execution of the command.

3. Set the values in your shell environment. For example, if you are using Z shell, adding `export CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN=...` to your `~/.zshrc` file will set this token as part of your shell configuration.
```

> 3. Setting the values in your shell environment. For example, if you're using Z shell, adding `export CF_API_TOKEN=...` to your `~/.zshrc` file will set this token as part of your shell configuration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Setting the values in your shell environment. For example, if you're using Z shell, adding `export CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN=...` to your `~/.zshrc` file will set this token as part of your shell configuration.
```

Reviewer 2: Nice catch!

> ### Wrangler supports the following environment variables:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Supported environment variables
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Wrangler supports the following environment variables:

```

{{<definitions>}}

- `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The account ID for the Workers related account, can be found in the Cloudflare dashboard, can usually be inferred by Wrangler.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - The account ID for the Workers related account, can be [found in the Cloudflare dashboard](/fundamentals/get-started/basic-tasks/find-account-and-zone-ids/), can usually be inferred by Wrangler.
```

- `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The [API token](https://developers.cloudflare.com/api/get-started/create-token/) for your Cloudflare account, can be used for authentication for situations like CI/CD, and other automation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - The [API token](/api/get-started/create-token/) for your Cloudflare account, can be used for authentication for situations like CI/CD, and other automation.
```

- `CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The API key for your Cloudflare account, usually used for older authentication method with `CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL=`.

- `CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The email address associated with your Cloudflare account, usually used for older authentication method with `CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY=`.

- `WRANGLER_SEND_METRICS` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - Options for this are `true` and `false`, the default behavior is `false`.

- `CLOUDFLARE_API_BASE_URL` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The default value is https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4.

- `WRANGLER_LOG` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - Options for Logging levels are "none", "error", "warn", "info", "log" and "debug".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Options for Logging levels are `"none"`, `"error"`, `"warn"`, `"info"`, `"log"` and `"debug"`.
```

Reviewer 3: Are these possible values? if so, added backticks

{{</definitions>}}

### Example `.env` file:

```bash
CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID=00aa000000a00000a0aa00a000a00xxx
CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL=fakeemail@void.com
WRANGLER_SEND_METRICS=true

> CLOUDFLARE_API_BASE_URL=https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v3

Reviewer 4: This is really only useful for us so I'd opt to remove it. Or at least change it to /v4 so those who copy this don't have issues.

```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Going to keep it. I will change it to V4 for peace of mind though
https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/pull/5990#discussion_r981834803
